---
title: Donations & Giving
order: 6
columns: two
template: guide.hbs
---

# {{title}} Module

Giving in Fresh Vine allows you to keep track of contributions donated to your organization. You are able to enter donations (or portions of donations) under a particular designated fund. By doing this, you are able to keep your giving entries earmarked for the specific fund they were given to. These gifts directly tie to the profiles of individuals and couples. 

## Entering Giving  
You can enter contributions into Fresh Vine from the start, but it will most likely be helpful to set up some basic configuration and templates.  

When you go to enter giving, we've provided a few settings so you can see how your contributions change and grow over time. By entering the date and if the money was given in association with a Service, you're able to keep track of how giving fluctuates based on time of year and type of gathering.  

If you select a service (needs to be set up prior to entering giving - or right now - go do it!), you are also able to enter the total amount given on that day. Fresh Vine will then 'count down' your total until you reach a balance of $0, letting you know everything was entered without error.  

You can also select a Template from this page, narrowing down the fund categories you've entered. 

## Giving Configuration  

By setting up just a few basic things, it will make each time you enter contributions go much smoother.  

You have the option to set whether you enter giving by name or (to set) a Giving ID number. Your community members can also give online, via our giving partners (read more about that in 'Online Payments'). You're also able to set an unlimited number of Giving Funds. *Giving Funds* are the specific earmarked pools of money that people contribute to. For example, you may have a fund set up to keep track of a building fund, and others to keep track of benevolence, a community outreach, or contributions to a partnering homeless shelter or program. The possibilities are endless. What your community can do is endless. We just help you keep track of it all.  
Once you have your funds entered, you'll want to create *Templates* to help you organize the funds, and be able to enter your contributions even faster.  

## Giving Templates
Giving Templates are a great way to narrow down your Funds, so that you only use and see the most helpful ones on any given day when entering contributions.  

If you have many "Funds" of giving (for example, Building fund, Benevolence, Missions, etc.), templates are a great way to narrow those down for specific instances. They can make your weekly giving input go much faster and smoother. Many communities may have one template for their weekly giving (only using the most given-to funds in their weekly giving template), others for special offerings.  

When creating a template, simply drag and drop the funds to become active, and reorder them as would be most beneficial to you. 

## Statements  
  
### Emailing Statements  
  
  
### Online Statements  
For a person to see their statement online they must have an active Portal user account. This is the only way that we can verify with a level of confidence that the correct person is seeing their statement.   
   
### Printing Statements   
For the foreseeable future there will be people who need us to send them hard copies of their contribution statements. We've done our best to make this process easy, customizable, and relatively simple to do. There are two files you'll need for this. The first is generated by Fresh Vine that holds your contribution records. The second file is available to download below and is the Microsoft word template that  

#### Printing Statements Tutorial Video  
  
**Normal Video**  
{{{youtube "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gWh0D8VSJgM"}}}  
  
  
#### Printing Statements Step by Step   
  
1.  **Download the Statement Word Template**  
	Available in [*.docx](/assets/other/giving_statement_template.docx) or [*.doc](/assets/other/giving_statement_template.doc)  
1.  **Open that Template in Microsoft Word**  
1.  **Review the default thank you note (make sure to set the year)**  
1.  **Update your Address in the Header**  
1.  **Export the statement spreadsheet from Fresh Vine**  
1.  **In Microsoft Word data merge the file you just downloaded**  
	(‘Mailings’ > ‘Select Recipients’ > ‘Use Existing List…’ )  
1.  **Print the Receipts**  
	(‘Mailings’ > ‘Finish & Merge’ > ‘Print Documents…’ )  
1.  **Stuff envelops, apply postage, and mail them**  
  
  
## Frequently Asked Questions  
  
### How Should we handle gifts without a donor?  
It's normal to have a certain amount of donations that are not attributable to a specific person. This is often in the form of cash that is simply given loose as a donation. The easiest way to handle this with Fresh Vine is to create a profile that is **'Anonymous Cash'**.  
Then attribute all of those donations to that profile. This will allow you to properly designate/account for these contributions, let you track these loose donations over time, and allow you to create a statement of all the loose gifts. 
  
    