---
title: Users
order: 14
columns: two
template: guide.hbs
---

# {{title}} Module


## User Accounts
You need a User Account to log into any of the Fresh Vine Apps (Leader site, Portal site, Concierge site and the Event Kiosk).  
User accounts are managed by the Admin(s) in your community.  
User accounts can be granted, suspended, or revoked as needed (by a Fresh Vine Admin).  
User accounts need specific *access* given to them. This is done by assigning each individual User one or more Access Groups.  


### Access Log
We keep an Access Log for you in Fresh Vine. This records every time a User logs into Fresh Vine. It keeps the log in the Admin section of Fresh Vine, as well as on each User's individual profile page.  

### User Access  
Once you give someone a User Account, you also need to give them the appropriate Access, via Access Groups. Fresh Vine is built modulally, meaning that even though you have access to see people's profiles and groups, you may not have access to see contributions. To read more about User Accounts and Access, see the Users Module.  

We have preset Access Groups ready for you to use. However, you can create new Access Groups or change the ones that are there. (We recommend you try ours out first, to see how it fits for your community and its needs.)

User Groups are not the same thing as a Group (Groups -> Create Group) you create in Fresh Vine. *User Groups* are the way we help you manage security via access/permissions for the people who are logging into your Fresh Vine.  

Without an account and access, someone cannot use Fresh Vine or get any content from it. Since accounts need selected permissions before becoming active, another level of security is created for your organization's system. Keep in mind that Fresh Vine is a Leaders site, and because sensitive information may be stored, you won't want to give everyone in your community access to Fresh Vine. Keep in mind, however, that you do have the option to enable the *Portal*, which is built for your community members with limited access.  
 

## Account Types  
### Leader
Leader Access allows an individual to log into your main Fresh Vine leader's site. They are then given access via Access Groups.  
  
### Portal
Portal Access gives an individual access to only the Portal site (if enabeled). If a user has Leader access, they automatically get access to the Portal. However, if a user has portal access, they do not get to log into the leader's site.  

## Account Status  
*Active*: Keep users Active, who are actively involved and are using Fresh Vine.  

*Suspended*: Set a User Account's Status to Suspended when they are temporarily not working with your organization. This may be because of a disciplinary action, scheduled sabbatical or any other reason of your choosing. Suspended accounts can be made Active again.  

*Removed*: Removing a User Account permanently deletes the User Account. It cannot be reinstated.  
At a later date, you can create a new User Account for that personal profile if you wish. They will have to set up their account again, however with a new username and password.  

Suspending or Removing an account will disconnect any applications that user has established with the API.  

## Primary Account  
We require at least one primary account in Fresh Vine. It would be preferred to have more than one, however.  
The person/s with a Primary Account have access to (1) manage billing information, (2) request database backups, and (3) can close your Fresh Vine account.


## Notifications  

## List of Notifications  
  
This list of notifiations is to help you understand the purpose of different notices generated by Fresh Vine.  

### Accounts

**Access Changes**  
Anytime the access available to a user is adjusted this notice is generated.  

**Finalized**  
Sent to user managers once a user account is finalized to let them know the process is completed.  

**Pending**  
When a new account is created for a person they are sent an email to finalize their account. This is done with a pending notification.  

**Pending user Completion**  
New User account has been successfully setup. Sent to the user who setup the account.  
  
**Status Change**  
Let the user know that their account status has been changed.  
  
**Type Changed**  
Sent to a user after their account type (leader or portal) has changed.  
  
**Welcome**  
Sent to a user after they finalize their account (setting their username and password).  
  
### Messages  

**Email Sent**  
Send to the author of an Email when the message has finished sending.  
  
### Events  
  
**Attendance**  
Sent to group leaders when their event startes asking for attendance.  
  
### Groups  

**Approved**  
Sent to Group Leaders when their group is approved.  
  
**Created**  
Sent to the group leaders when their group is created.  
  
**Creation Requested**  
Sent to Group Moderators when group is created/requested.  
  
**Follow Up**  
Sent to the group leaders when there are group members who require follow up [Run 6 hours *after* attendance is entered].  
  
**Leader Added**  
Sent to a user when they are promoted to lead a group.  
  
**Leader Removed**  
Sent to a user when they are removed as a group leader.  
  
**Status Changed**  
Sent to a group leaders when the status of the group has changed.  
  
### Import  
  
**Created**  
Sent to the user who uploaded the file to be imported once that file has been processed.  
  
**Finished**  
Sent when the import finishes processing we let the user know it is complete.  
  
**Expires Soon**  
Sent when the imported data is approaching it's expiration date.  
  
**Expired**  
Sent when the imported data has reached expiration date and was removed.  
  
**Removed**  
Sent when imported data has been removd by a user before processing was complete.  
  
  
  